Veety Software Distribution System Call Documentation

Notes:
	Most, if not all, system calls return -1 and set errstr on
	failure. Many of the system calls are privledged meaning only uid
	-1 can execute them. Some kernel functions are not available as
	system calls, and the ones that are are only like that because
	they are either needed before devd starts, by devd, or are for
	file, process, and usermanipulation. This list has all of the
	defined system calls, but some currently do not function (like
	chroot) or do not really have much of a use (chsystem).

fork:
	Fork creates a new process and copied the calling processes state
	to the new process than continues execution in both from where the
	fork was called. Fork returns 0 in the child and the child's pid
	in the parent.

exit:
	Exit kills the calling process.

wait:
	Wait waits for a child to return and returns the pid of the child.
	Returns -1 if the process has no children.

pipe:
	Pipe take an array of 2 ints and fills the array with
	interconnected file descriptors.

read:
	Read takes an fid and buffer and fills the buffer with data from
	that fid. Returns the amount of data read or -1 on an error.

kill:
	Kill takes a pid and kills that process. Returns 0 on success and
	-1 on failure.

exec:
	Exec fills the calling process with a new process image. Never
	returns on success and -1 on failure.

fstat:
	Gets information about a file based on given fid. Returns -1 on
	failure.

chdir:
	Chdir changes the calling process's current directory. Returns -1
	on failure.

dup:
	Dup makes a duplicate of a given fid. Returns the new fid on
	success and -1 on failure.

getpid:
	Getpid returns the calling process's process id.

sbrk:
	Sbrk expands the current process's address space. Returns -1 on
	failure.

sleep:
	Sleep causes the calling process to be skipped for execution for
	about the specified length of time.

uptime:
	Returns how many ticks the system has been running for.

open:
	Open takes a filename and mode and returns a fid based on that
	file. Return the fid or -1 on failure.

write:
	Write takes an fid and buffer and puts the data in that buffer
	into the fid.

mknod:
	Mknod creates a device file. Returns -1 on failure.

unlink:
	Unlink deletes a file reference to an inode. Returns -1 on
	failure.

link:
	Link creates a file reference to an inode. Returns -1 on failure.

mkdir:
	Mkdir creates a directory. Returns -1 on failure.

close:
	Close closes a fid. Returns -1 on failure.

chuser:
	Chuser changes the calling process's uid if the current uid is -1.
	Returns -1 on failure.

chsystem:
	Chsystem changes the process group of the calling process if the
	process is in group -1. Returns -1 on failure.

disallow:
	Disallow prevents processes that do not have uid -1 from running.
	Returns -1 on failure.

getuid:
	Getuid returns the calling process's uid. Returns -1 on failure.

getsid:
	Getsid returns the calling process's group. Returns -1 on failure.

getts:
	Getts returns 1 if all processes can be run and 0 if only uid -1
	processes can be run.

chroot:
	Chroot doesn't currently work.

errstr:
	Errstr either writes to or reads the current process's errstr.

checkuser:
	Checkuser returns 1 if the given password is for the given uid if
	the calling process is uid -1. Returns 0 if there is no match and
	-1 if there is a failure.

finduser:
	Finduser takes a uid or username and returns a username or uid if
	the calling process is uid -1. Returns -1 on failure.

moduser:
	Moduser takes a uid and changes the password, lock status,
	existance, or username of that user if the calling process is uid
	-1. Returns -1 on failure.

modfs:
	Modfs mounts and unmounts filesystems. It takes a fs, operation
	arg, and mount point for mount and a mountpoint and operation arg
	for unmount. Returns -1 on failure and sets errstr.

chanmsg:
	Chanmsg sends messages on channels. It takes a cd, direction, and
	value. Returns when msg is recieved or on error.

modchan:
	Modchan creates, opens, closes, and delete channels. It takes an
	operation arg and a channel address. Returns a cd or -1 on error.

